# Understanding prior work

**Example 1**: In the 1980s, a popular technique in education was
education differentiated to students' learning styles. It was believed
that different students learned better if information were presented
in an auditory, visual, or kinesthetic way. Over the following
decades, there was no evidence for learning styles. Eventually,
several meta-studies came out which [debunked the concept of learning
styles](https://www.psychologicalscience.org/journals/pspi/PSPI_9_3.pdf). However,
[papers](https://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=learning+styles+&as_ylo=2013)
describing technologies to support different learning styles continue
to come out, oblivious to this work, and generally repeating
methodological errors described in such work.

**Example 2**: In MOOCs (the space where I operate) a significant
number of papers -- more than 10 percent -- begin with one of two
faulty assumptions:

* In the early days of MOOCs, there was a mischaracterization of the
drop-out rate in MOOCs due to some poor press management.
* State-of-the-art in MOOCs is hour-long videos and multiple choice
questions (which was often the state-of-the-practice, due to failure
to scale best practices, but was never the state-of-the-art).

Many such papers are then simply incorrect. For example, many papers
attempted to improve on drop-out by adding interventions late in the
course, where most of the alleged "drop-out" came from users simply
never logging in, or making it past the first few minutes. Many such
papers also add interventions which were either already used in
state-of-the-art MOOCs, or both more difficult to scale and less
effective than techniques in state-of-the-art MOOCs.

Peer reviewers and authors from general ed-tech conferences were
unaware of the issue; there was no incentive to thoroughly check prior
work. For a while, a few people from Harvard played whack-a-mole with
such work. This approach did not work -- rebuttals are rarely read,
and misconceptions continue to propagate. Indeed, such papers began to
cite each other.

These examples are the tip of the iceberg. Many MOOC papers
unknowningly replicate prior results in education research, or worse,
contradict them with significant (well-known) methodological errors.

For the most part, researchers who ignore prior work can:

* Make greater claims about the impact of their own work
* Have more time for research. 

In a competitive landscape, such researchers tend to win.