# What is this?

This is a web site for a session I am organizing for the April 2017
Day of Action at MIT. This session focuses on two topics: (1) How to
affect organizational change (2) Bad science.

# What is this session about?

Did you know that [Cambridge helped Trump win the
election](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rE3j_RHkqJc)? Westboro
Babtist Church has done more to forward LGBT rights than most liberal
activists groups? Many attempts at activism have the opposite effect
from the one desired. We will briefly discuss how to effectively work
to influence organizational systems (government, corporate, or
otherwise) through both [hard
tactics](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rStL7niR7gs) and [soft
tactics](https://www.amazon.com/How-Win-Friends-Influence-People/dp/0671027034).

Concretely, we will focus on applying this to an area close to home --
bad science. According to
[Pew](http://www.pewinternet.org/2016/10/04/public-views-on-climate-change-and-climate-scientists/),
roughly half of the US population does not believe in human-caused
climate change. The public has developed a healthy distrust of
science. Unforunately, much of this skepticism is justified. Science,
especially as presented in K-12 classrooms, popular press, and popular
books, is [quite
often](http://journals.plos.org/plosmedicine/article?id=10.1371/journal.pmed.0020124)
quite wrong. We will work in small groups to explore some of the
issues in the scientific establishment, and try to come up with ways
to fix them.

A [draft curriculum](http://www.sciencefallacies.org/) with
recommended pre-work is available. Session limited to 30 participants.

# Pre-work and References

Prework is not required but recommended. In particular, there are two
entertaining videos which might be helpful to watch before the
session. [This Video Will Make You
Angry](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rE3j_RHkqJc) discusses how
protests act to mobilize the opposition. [Rules for
Rulers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rStL7niR7gs) is a summary of
the (very excellent) [Dictator's
Handbook](https://www.amazon.com/Dictators-Handbook-Behavior-Almost-Politics/dp/1610391845),
which gives a popular game-theoretic explanation of what is required
to come to and maintain power. Both of these fall under the category
of hard tactics.

Two good references for soft tactics include [Building
Relationships](http://morassociates.com/readings/MOR_Building_Relationships_Article.pdf)
from MOR Associates, an organization which specializes in leadership
training, and the classic book [How to Win Friends and Influence
People](https://www.amazon.com/How-Win-Friends-Influence-People/dp/0671027034)

Broadly speaking, effective change tactics require understanding the
parties involved, their motivations, and predicting the effects of our
actions. Other good references include [Getting to
Yes](https://www.amazon.com/Getting-Yes-Negotiating-Agreement-Without/dp/0140157352),
which focuses on how to understand the opposition, and come up with
solutions which meet the needs of all parties involved.

When reading these books, remember that changes often happen
behind-the-scenes. 

# Why should you attend this session?

In college at MIT, most of us had poor soft skills, and didn't really
get what soft skills were. MIT's training in soft skills was limited
to "communications intensive" courses and groupwork, which didn't
really do the job especially well.

This gap held me back (in the words of one mentor, as I was starting a
new organization, I was "like a bull in a Chinashop"). Since
graduation, I have spent a lot of time trying to understand, both
theoretically and practically, how to effectively effect
organizational change.

I have been increasingly successful at this effort. I have been
involved in three initatives as a cofounder or early employee. All
broke the $100 million mark. Through that journey, I learned much more
about soft skills required in the real world. I'd like to share some
of that knowledge. A few of the things I've done (like edX, which I
proposed to the provost of MIT in the early fall of 2011) resulted in
profound institutional changes. 

In that time, I have also become increasingly critical of the academic
establishment. In my half-decade experience as the Chief Scientist of
edX, I have experienced many shortcomings of academia and academic
research. I thought it'd be nice to run a session to see if we could
figure out how we might be able to work to effect positive change.

# Tentative Session Structure

* 15 minutes: Overview of session, overview of frameworks of
  organizational change
* 30 minutes: Break into groups. Each group prepares a 5 minute minute
  presentation about their problem
* 30 minutes: Group presentations
* 10 minutes: Readout

# Group Topics

* Selection of academics: Thereau called the concept here a mutual
  admiration society, and today, it is called an echo chamber
* Peer review process: A 30 second skim, in many cases. No incentives
  for doing a good job. Famous computer-generated and BS papers
  accepted
* P-values and lack of reporting of null results. Famous John
  Ioannidis paper.
* Lack of incentives around errors
* Incentives for promotion/popular promotion for academics and
  universities
* Incentives for science reporters/popular book publishers
* Secret science

# About this page

This is a github page, which means you are seeing everything I am
working on in realtime. Depending on when you look at this page, it
may or may not reflect the final session, and it may be in various
levels of undress. It also means you're welcome to contribute, or
reuse in other places. 
